- They can be a form of arguing

- IN REASONABLE SITUATIONS;
	- a question is a sincere request for information
	- IF THE ANSWER IS KNOWN
		- give answer
	- ELSE
		- try and be as informative as possible

- But a question isn't always reasonable/ sincere, some questions are deliberately bad
	- In this case, not answering SHOULD NOT be considered as evasive.
- These questions will have to be answered with another _reasonable_ question

```
Question is asked

Judge if the question is reasonable or not
	if reasonable {non direct answer = criticizable}
	else {non direct answer = fine}
```

## Debates

|           | Symmetric                          | Asymmetric                                                 |
| --------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Person A  | Has proofs                         | Has proofs                                                 |
| Person B  | Has proofs                         | Asks questions                                             |
| _dynamic_ | both participans defend their idea | Only one has to defend while the other acts like a sceptic |
| _example_ | pros and cons of X idea            | a courtroom                                                |

## Answers
- Direct 
- Indirect - partial answer
- Prevaricative (bs) - totally evasive 

## Questions
- Yes or no - 2 options to choose from
- Whether - A set of alternatives to choose from
- Why - Requests a reasonable set of propositions 

### Fallacious Questions
_It depends on context if a question if fallacious._

#### Loaded Question
- _Contains a presupposition which is dangerous for the answerer_

- A question that has a presupposition built into it so that it couldn't be answered without appearing guilty

##### What is presupposition?
- It is an underlying statement that is embedded within the question.
- The questioner frames the question in such a way that this presupposition is assumed to be true.
- Not all presuppositions are bad, but if they are bad/dangerous to the answerer, then the question becomes _loaded_

##### How to answer a loaded question?
- Generally there is no _escape-clause_ (yes or no)
- So, you will have to _object the question itself_
	- Reject the presupposition
	- Question the presupposition
- Sometimes, you dont have to provide an answer, assert your position since the question itself is unfair (fallacious)

#### Complex Question
- One question that contains multiple questions
- Trying to reconstruct the questions individually might be tricky and you might be providing an indirect answer (to things you didn't wanna answer...)

Example: _Are you stupid, should you kill yourself_ 
(you might be stupid but not suicidal)

##### How to answer?
- Ask for the questions to be divided

#### Disjunctive Question
- 'Whether' question where the provided options as ass
- _false dilemma fallacy_

##### How to answer?
1. Show that the question is fallacious
2. Articulate the proper question
3. Make the questioner admit that they committed a fallacy
4. Answer the proper question with a DIRECT answer

#### Hypothetical Question
Example: Would you quit your job if you were caught jerking off?

_There are multiple factors like where were you jerking off, what time was it, were you alone? etc. _

##### How to answer?
You can answer the question indirectly, but never give a direct answer without specifying the details
