## Proposition
- It is a declarative statement
- either true or false (cannot be both)

- Some propositions cannot be divided into smaller statements - *component statements*
- Combination of component statements - compound statement

## Logics
### Negation
- ~$p$ 

| p   | ~p  |
| --- | --- |
| T   | F   |
| F   | T   |

- Even number of negations - Original Statement

### Logical Equivalence
Sign: $\Leftrightarrow$

### Conjunction
- Example: I opened the door $and$ switched on the light
- Sign: $\&$
- $p \& q$ is only true is both $p$ and $q$ are true ***

| p   | q   | $p \& q$ |
| --- | --- | -------- |
| T   | T   | T        |
| T   | F   | F        |
| F   | T   | F        |
| F   | F   | F        |
### Disjunction
#### Inclusive Disjunction
- The compound statement is true if _at least one_ of the component statement is true
- Sign: $v$

| p   | q   | $p~v~q$ |
| --- | --- | ------- |
| T   | T   | T       |
| T   | F   | T       |
| F   | T   | T       |
| F   | F   | F       |

#### Exclusive Disjunction
- Only one of the component statements can be true at a time
- Example: Either I die or I live _UwU_
- Sign: $\nabla$

| p   | q   | $p~\nabla~q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------ |
| T   | T   | F            |
| T   | F   | T            |
| F   | T   | T            |
| F   | F   | F            |

### Negation of a Conjunction
_Example:_ The meteorologist said that it would rain and be windy.

$p$ - It would rain
$q$ - be windy

For correctness - $p~\&~q$ 
For wrongness - ~$(p~\&~q)~~ \Leftrightarrow$ ~$p~v$ ~$q$ 

wtf are we even tryna say?
- For the mothefucker to be correct, 
	- It SHOULD rain 
	- It SHOULD be windy
		- if either of those things didn't happen he is wrong.
		- This is the same as inductive disjunction between the OPPOSITES of propositions p and q. 


### Negation of Disjunction
_Example:_ Anna works at Aldi or Lidl - Neither, she killed herself. 

- Neither - Negates the disjunction
	- It means that she 
		- Does not work at Lidl
		- Does not work at Aldi 

- $\sim (p~v~q)~~\Leftrightarrow ~~ \sim p~ \& ~ \sim q$

### Conditional
- General format: If $x$ then $y$ 
- $y$ cannot happen without $x$ happening.
- Every time $x$ is true, $y$ is true
	- $x$ - Antecedent
	- $y$ - Consequent (because it is a consequence of $x$)
- Sign: $\supset$

| p   | q   | $p \supset q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------- |
| T   | T   | T             |
| T   | F   | F             |
| F   | T   | T             |
| F   | F   | T             |
- Only condition 2 is impossible, because as per definition, if $p$ is true, $q$ is definitely true as well.
- $p \supset q~~ \Leftrightarrow~~ \sim (p~ \& ~ \sim q)$

- $p$ and $q$ are not interchangeable
	- if $p$ then $q$
		- doesn't always mean
	- if $q$ then $p$
- Example: 
	- if I drink water, I pee
	- if I pee, I drink water ?? 

#### Contrapositive
- _Example:_ If I go to the movies, then I will buy a ticket
	- If I do not buy tickets, it means that I am not going to the movies. 
- $p \supset q~~~ \Leftrightarrow~~ \sim q~~ \supset ~ \sim p$
	- The second conditional is called the _contrapositive_

- This DOES NOT mean, $p$ and $q$ are interchangeable
	- $p \supset q~~ \neq ~~q \supset p$
		- if i go on a date, I will brush my teeth 
			- $\neq$
		- if I brush my teeth, i go on a date
	- $p \supset q~~ \neq ~~ \sim p \supset \sim q$
		- if I go on a date, I will brush my teeth
	
			- $\neq$
		- if I dont go on a date, i wont brush my teeth

#### Biconditional
- Sign: $\equiv$
- $p$ if and only if (iff) $q$
- $p \equiv q~~ < = >~~ (p \supset q) \& (q \supset p)$
- The _biconditional_ is true if $p$ and $q$ have the same truth values

| p   | q   | $p \equiv q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------ |
| T   | T   | T            |
| T   | F   | F            |
| F   | T   | F            |
| F   | F   | T            |
- Either both $p$ and $q$ happen or neither happen. 

## False Dilemma
_Example:_ You either get me a dildo or you dont love me.
- This is a FALLACY
- This limits the opponent _unfairly_ to only 2 choices. 
	- You can buy me a dildo and still hate me 
	- You can not buy me a dildo and still love me 
		- (both are possible, and fair but the sentence frames it wrongly as if there is no fair in-between)


## Valid and Invalid Schemes
### Modus Ponens
- $P_1$ - If you graduate, then you will get a car
- $P_2$ - You graduated
- $C$ - you get a car 

- $P_1$ - If there are fireworks, then my dog gets scared
- $P_2$ - There are fireworks now
- $C$ - My dog is scared now

- $P_1$ - $p \supset q$
- $P_2$ - $p$
- $C$ - $q$

- If the premises are true, then the conclusion is _necessarily_ true

### Modus Tollens
- $P_1$ - If you graduate you get a car
- $P_2$ - you did not get a car
- $C$ - You didnt graduate

- $P_1$ - $p \supset q$
- $P_2$ - $\sim q$
- $C$ - $\sim p$

- This is also a valid scheme. (check conditional truth table)

### Affirming the consequent
- $P_1$ - $p \supset q$
- $P_2$ - $q$
- $C$ - $p$

- This is invalid.
- This is called affirming the consequent

- _Example:_ 
	- If somebody's first language is English, then they know English. 
	- I know English. 
	- Therefore my first language is English.
		- *Fuck no, ew.* 

### Denying the antecedent
- $P_1$ - $p \supset q$
- $P_2$ - $\sim p$
- $C$ - $\sim q$

- This is also invalid

- _Example:
	- If I live in london, then I live in europe 
	- I dont live in london
	- Therefore, I dont live in europe

___
# Summary
## 1. Negation

| p   | $\sim p$ |
| --- | -------- |
| T   | F        |
| F   | T        |

## 2. Conjunction
_Both has to be true for the statement to be true_

| p   | q   | $p \& q$ |
| --- | --- | -------- |
| T   | T   | T        |
| T   | F   | F        |
| F   | T   | F        |
| F   | F   | F        |

## 3. Inclusive Disjunction
_At least one has to be true for the statement to be true_

| p   | q   | $p~v~q$ |
| --- | --- | ------- |
| T   | T   | T       |
| T   | F   | T       |
| F   | T   | T       |
| F   | F   | F       |

## 4. Exclusive Disjunction
_Both cannot be the same_
_Only one has to be true for the statement to be true_

| p   | q   | $p \nabla q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------ |
| T   | T   | F            |
| T   | F   | T            |
| F   | T   | T            |
| F   | F   | F            |

## 5. Negation of Conjunction
$\sim (p \& q)~~ \Leftrightarrow ~ \sim p ~~ v \sim q$

## 6. Negation of Disjunction
$\sim (pvq)~~ \Leftrightarrow~~ \sim p \& \sim q$

## 7. Conditional
_if $p$ is true, then $q$ HAS to be true_

| p   | q   | $p \supset q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------- |
| T   | T   | T             |
| T   | F   | F             |
| F   | T   | T             |
| F   | F   | T             |

- $p \supset q~~ \Leftrightarrow~~ \sim(p \& \sim q)$
- Contrapositive: $p \supset q~~ \Leftrightarrow~~ \sim q \supset \sim p$
- $p\supset q~~ \neq ~~ q \supset p$
- $p \supset q~~ \neq~~ \sim p \supset \sim q$

## Valid Schemes
### 8. Modus Ponens
$P_1$ - $p \supset q$
$P_2$ - $p$
$C$ - $q$

### 9. Modus Tollens
$P_1$ - $p \supset q$
$P_2$ - $\sim q$
$C$ - $\sim p$

## Invalid Schemes

### 10. Affirming the consequent
$P_1$ - $p \supset q$
$P_2$ - $q$
$C$ - $p$

### 11. Denying the antecedent
$P_1$ - $p \supset q$
$P_2$ - $\sim p$
$C$ - $\sim q$

## 12. Biconditional
_$p$ iff $q$_
_either both happen, or neither happen_

| p   | q   | $p \equiv q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------ |
| T   | T   | T            |
| T   | F   | F            |
| F   | T   | F            |
| F   | F   | T            |

$p \equiv q~~ \Leftrightarrow ~~(p \supset q)~ \& ~(q \supset p)$
___

